these are the two new surface laptops
for 2019 this is the 13.5 inch model
this is the 15 inch model now I'm gonna
spend the majority of this video talking
about the 15 inch one because it's the
one that's most interesting to me but
it's also the one that has the most
important discussion to be had around it
because there's a lot of kind of
information and misinformation about
this particular device so the 15 inch
device starts at $1,200 and the
configurations that Microsoft is
advertising and kind of pushing right
now are all equipped with these AMD
chips they're custom chips they're good
performers they have good CPU and GPU
performance but the thing that casts a
little bit of shade over this entire AMD
surface laptop 3 product line is the
fact that Microsoft also sells the same
laptop but it's equipped with Intel CPUs
and those are just better like
straight-up they're better products than
the AMD version the weird thing is that
Microsoft doesn't even sell this better
Intel version to regular customers at
least not openly you have to be a member
of like their enterprise program or like
a business customer with Microsoft even
have access to this superior product and
it's not to take away from what
Microsoft and AMD have created here like
this is a really good device but knowing
that this is a slightly inferior product
than the Intel version when you're only
saving a hundred bucks just it doesn't
feel right so with the AMD version of
the 15 inch surface laptop 3 you get
about an hour less of battery life which
is it could be significant depending
what you do and you also get slightly
worse performance across the board now
if you are not a student you don't have
access to a student discount and there's
no sales going on I would highly
recommend the Intel version over the AMD
every day and I also noticed that
overnight like once I close this thing
and just let it idle with the screen off
overnight
it was draining like 15% every night and
I'm not sure if it's a software thing or
if it's like actually related to the AMD
CPU but the battery life is clearly not
the strong point of the AMD surface
laptop 3 ok how are they overall they're
good the design and build quality of the
surface laptops I've always been good
there's something about the way they
look that I've always appreciated they
don't
copy anyone it's got this distinct
Microsoft Surface design aesthetic to it
and I like that they've also added use
PC this year all of them have a single
USBC port and they still also have
surface connect on the other side it's a
lightweight machine particularly the
15-inch like there's something very
well-balanced and just easy to hold
about this machine it's easily the best
device I've ever had for like spinning a
laptop and I think most people can
likely look at this and like this is a
joke it's actually incredibly well
balanced and lightweight for a 15-inch
device but the reason why it is so light
or at least part of the reason why it's
so light is because the battery in the
15-inch is the same size as a battery
and a 13-inch
so the bigger screen doesn't give you a
bigger battery which is unfortunate but
it does keep the weight down on this
device when you lift the lid you get
your classic three by two Microsoft
Surface screen and they're both good
both the 15 and 13-inch have good
screens there's nothing I would really
have to complain about these screens
they're bright they're not like super
high refresh or anything they're just
high-quality screens from Microsoft the
keyboard and the trackpad are also very
good the surface laptops have always had
great input devices and this year it's
no exception
the keyboard is something I think most
people will enjoy it's got a nice layout
the keys have a good amount of travel on
it without it being too spongy or too
snappy like it's a all-around solid
keyboard and the trackpad I think this
is like literally the best trackpad on a
Windows laptop the thing that makes it
special nuts its size or its texture
it's the actual click mechanism it's
like this you hear that it's got this
like nice resonance to the click it's a
good trackpad and obviously because it's
Microsoft it takes advantage of all the
windows gestures and stuff like that now
the other feature they've added this
year is serviceability they've had these
screws you can remove from the bottom
I'm not gonna remove them from this unit
but you got to peel off the rubber tabs
I'll show a clip from I fix it where
they tore this thing down but you do
have access for serviceability not so
much upgrade ability there's only one
thing that can be user upgraded it's the
drive and even then it's an uncommon
size but the fact that this device can
be serviced at all is a nice change from
the previous year and the year before
that okay performance real quick these
are good laptops
kind of light to average use if you're
trying to pick one up for like video
editing or gaming it's not a thing it
doesn't matter how Microsoft tries to
market these things these are designed
for lighter use the GPUs are more
powerful this year but keep in mind that
the main strengths of surface laptops
have always been about Portability and
quiet fans and not so much power but
overall I do like what Microsoft brought
this year for the surface laptop 3
there's all these tweaks and upgrades
that they've done across this device
it's got faster drives better Wi-Fi it's
got USB see fast charging off of surface
Kinect and the repair ability on these
devices is something that it's always
nice to see but just keep in mind if
you're interested in the 15 inch device
my recommendation is Intel but the 13
inch device they only offered Intel this
is like an easier option if you're
interested in that one but yeah there
you have it surface laptop 3 thumbs if
you liked it subs we've loved it see you
guys next time
but for real give me some actual thumbs
if you like this video